Snowflake MFA enforcement (#7691)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/connect-snowflake.md

This section describes the different authentication methods for connecting <Constant name="cloud" /> to Snowflake. Configure Deployment environment (Production, Staging, General) credentials globally in the [**Connections**](/docs/deploy/deploy-environments#deployment-connection) area of **Account settings**. Individual users configure their development credentials in the [**Credentials**](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/develop-in-the-cloud#get-started-with-the-cloud-ide) area of their user profile. 

### Username and password with MFA

:::info Snowflake authentication

> From November 2025 Snowflake will phase out single-factor password authentication and, multi-factor authentication (MFA) will be enforced.

Author: ```suggestion
As of November 2025, Snowflake will phase out single-factor password authentication and, multi-factor authentication (MFA) will be enforced.
```

> As of November 2025, Snowflake will phase out single-factor password authentication and, multi-factor authentication (MFA) will be enforced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting November 2025, Snowflake will phase out single-factor password authentication, and multi-factor authentication (MFA) will be enforced.
```
Can we combine this with the callout in line 43 to minimize the number of note boxes?

Author: Hiya @nehahystad 

What do you think of this idea (combining the key pair call out with the earlier call out - about MFA being available on all plans)?

Kind Regards
Natalie

Reviewer 2: I am also aligned with combining the call out!

> From November 25, 2025 Snowflake will phase out single-factor password authentication and, multi-factor authentication (MFA) will be enforced.

Author: ```suggestion
From November 2025 Snowflake will phase out single-factor password authentication and, multi-factor authentication (MFA) will be enforced.
```

MFA will be required for all `Username / Password` authentication.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

To continue using key pair authentication, users should update any deployment environments currently using `Username / Password` by November 2025.

```

Refer to [Snowflake's blog post](https://www.snowflake.com/en/blog/blocking-single-factor-password-authentification/) for more information.

:::

:::info Snowflake MFA plan availability

Snowflake's MFA is available on all [plan types](https://www.getdbt.com/pricing).

:::

**Available in:** Development environments

The `Username / Password` auth method is the simplest way to authenticate
Development credentials in a dbt project. Simply enter your Snowflake
username (specifically, the `login_name`) and the corresponding user's Snowflake `password`
to authenticate <Constant name="cloud" /> to run queries against Snowflake on behalf of a Snowflake user.

> `Username / Password` authentication is permitted in development environments only. In other environments (for example, deployment), users must complete the MFA setup.

Reviewer 2: I would update this to: 

"It is not supported for deployment credentials because MFA is required. In deployment environments, use keypair authentication instead."

> `Username / Password` authentication is permitted in development environments only. In other environments (for example, deployment), users must complete the MFA setup.

Author: ```suggestion
`Username / Password` authentication is not supported for deployment credentials because MFA is required. In deployment environments, use [keypair](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/connect-snowflake#key-pair) authentication instead.
```

> `Username / Password` authentication will be permitted in development environments only. In other environments (such as deployment environments), MFA will be required, and users must complete setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Username / Password` authentication is permitted in development environments only. In other environments (for example, deployment), users must complete the MFA setup.
```

> **Note**: The schema field in the **Developer Credentials** section is a required field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: The *Schema** field in the **Developer Credentials** section is required.
```

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/snowflake-userpass-auth.png" width="70%" title="Snowflake username/password authentication"/>

**Prerequisites:**
- A development environment in a <Constant name="cloud" /> project
- The Duo authentication app
- Admin access to Snowflake (if MFA settings haven't already been applied to the account)
- [Admin (write) access](/docs/cloud/manage-access/seats-and-users) to <Constant name="cloud" /> environments

> <Constant name="cloud" /> supports [Snowflake's MFA](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/security-mfa) as another `Username / Password` option for increased login security. Snowflake's MFA support is powered by the Duo Security service.

Reviewer 2: I would remove the first sentence altogether. MFA is not an additional option, it will be the only option. Or maybe change the first sentence to "MFA is required by Snowflake for all username/password logins."

> <Constant name="cloud" /> supports [Snowflake's MFA](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/security-mfa) as another `Username / Password` option for increased login security. Snowflake's MFA support is powered by the Duo Security service.

Author: ```suggestion
[MFA](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/security-mfa) is required by Snowflake for all `Username / Password` logins. Snowflake's MFA support is powered by the Duo Security service.
```

> <Constant name="cloud" /> supports Snowflake's [multi-factor authentication (MFA)](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/security-mfa) as another `Username / Password` option for increased login security. Snowflake's MFA support is powered by the Duo Security service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Constant name="cloud" /> supports [Snowflake's MFA](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/security-mfa) as another `Username / Password` option for increased login security. Snowflake's MFA support is powered by the Duo Security service.
```

### Key pair

:::info Update deployment environments

> From November 2025 Snowflake will phase out single-factor password authentication and, multi-factor authentication (MFA) will be enforced.

Author: ```suggestion
As of November 2025, Snowflake will phase out single-factor password authentication and, multi-factor authentication (MFA) will be enforced.
```

> As of November 2025, Snowflake will phase out single-factor password authentication and, multi-factor authentication (MFA) will be enforced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting November 2025, Snowflake will phase out single-factor password authentication, and MFA will be enforced.
```

> From November 25, 2025 Snowflake will phase out single-factor password authentication and, multi-factor authentication (MFA) will be enforced.

Author: ```suggestion
From November 2025 Snowflake will phase out single-factor password authentication and, multi-factor authentication (MFA) will be enforced.
```

> To continue using key pair authentication, users should update any deployment environments currently using `Username / Password` by November 25, 2025.

Author: ```suggestion
To continue using key pair authentication, users should update any deployment environments currently using `Username / Password` by November 2025.
```

### Key pair

> :::info Update deployment environments

Author: ```suggestion
```

### Key pair

:::info Update deployment environments

> Starting November 2025, Snowflake will phase out single-factor password authentication, and MFA will be enforced.

Author: ```suggestion

```

### Key pair

:::info Update deployment environments

Starting November 2025, Snowflake will phase out single-factor password authentication, and MFA will be enforced.

> To continue using key pair authentication, users should update any deployment environments currently using `Username / Password` by November 2025.

Author: ```suggestion

```

### Key pair

:::info Update deployment environments

Starting November 2025, Snowflake will phase out single-factor password authentication, and MFA will be enforced.

To continue using key pair authentication, users should update any deployment environments currently using `Username / Password` by November 2025.

> :::

Author: ```suggestion

```
